.TH DBX-BUILD-IMAGE 1 "2026-06-02" "dbx 0.25.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx-build-image \- pre-build a custom Postgres image for third-party extensions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx build-image
.B \-\-from\-backup
.IR file
.br
.B dbx build-image
.BI pg MAJOR
.B \-\-extensions
.IR ext1,ext2,...
.SH DESCRIPTION
When a backup uses a third-party Postgres extension that has no off-the-shelf
image (for example
.IR pg_partman ", " pg_cron ", or " pgaudit ),
.B dbx
builds a small custom image on demand:
.B FROM postgres:<major>
(Debian) plus the extension's PGDG package, tagged
.IR dbx-pg<major>:<hash> ,
where the hash is derived from the exact extension set. The build runs once and
is cached by tag, so later restores of the same extension set are network-free
and reproducible. Extensions that require
.B shared_preload_libraries
(such as
.IR pg_cron )
get it baked into the image.
.PP
A restore triggers this build automatically. Use
.B dbx build-image
to warm the cache ahead of time \(em recommended for scheduled jobs, so a
restore never blocks on a build.
.PP
The set of buildable extensions comes from a built-in registry
.RB ( pg_partman ", " pg_cron ", " pgaudit ", " hypopg ", " pg_repack ", "
.IR pg_hint_plan ", " hll )
merged with the
.B defaults.extension_packages
config escape hatch. See
.BR dbx-config (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-from\-backup " file"
Read the required major version and extension set from the backup's
.I .meta.json
sidecar and build whatever image it needs.
.TP
.BI pg MAJOR
Target Postgres major version (e.g.
.IR pg17 ).
Used with
.BR \-\-extensions .
.TP
.BI \-\-extensions " list"
Comma-separated extension names to include.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Warm the cache for a specific backup before a scheduled restore:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx build-image --from-backup ~/.data/dbx/prod/app/app_20260526.sql.zst
.fi
.RE
.PP
Build a PG 17 image with two extensions explicitly:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx build-image pg17 --extensions pg_partman,pg_cron
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DBX_BUILD_MISSING_IMAGES
Set to
.I false
to disable build-on-demand during restores (overrides
.BR defaults.build_missing_images ).
Does not affect this command, which always builds when invoked explicitly.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbx-backup (1),
.BR dbx-restore (1),
.BR dbx-config (1).
