.TH DBX-BACKUP 1 "2026-06-20" "dbx 0.35.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx-backup \- back up a remote PostgreSQL, MySQL, or MariaDB database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx backup
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-upload ]
.RB [ \-\-schema-only | \-\-data-only ]
.RB [ \-\-globals | \-\-no\-globals ]
.I host
.RI [ database ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Back up the named database from
.I host
to a zstd-compressed (and optionally encrypted) file under
.IR $DATA_DIR/<host>/<database>/ .
When
.I database
is omitted, every database declared for
.I host
in
.I config.json
is backed up sequentially.
.PP
The dump runs inside the managed Docker container matched to the
source flavor and major version (Postgres) or flavor + major.minor
(MySQL / MariaDB). No local
.B pg_dump
or
.B mysqldump
is required.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Surface per-table progress and helper diagnostics. For MySQL backups,
tees
.B mysqldump
.B \-\-verbose
stderr live to the terminal (per-table "Retrieving table structure"
lines) and prints the sanitized
.B mysqldump
target. Also enables
.B mysql_detect_server_version
diagnostics under
.B DBX_VERBOSE=1.
.TP
.B \-\-upload
After the backup writes successfully, also upload it to the configured
remote storage (S3 / MinIO). Requires
.B dbx storage
to be configured.
.TP
.B \-\-schema-only
Dump structure only \(em tables, views, routines, triggers \(em with no
rows. Postgres uses
.B pg_dump \-\-section=pre-data \-\-section=post-data ;
MySQL runs only the schema pass
.RB ( \-\-no-data )
of its two-pass dumper. Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-data-only .
.TP
.B \-\-data-only
Dump rows only, with no DDL. Postgres uses
.B pg_dump \-\-section=data ;
MySQL runs only the data pass
.RB ( \-\-no-create-info ).
A data-only dump restores cleanly only into a target that already has the
matching schema. Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-schema-only .
.TP
.BR \-\-globals ", " \-\-no\-globals
(PostgreSQL only) Capture, or force-skip, cluster-wide globals \(em roles,
memberships, role-level grants, and tablespaces \(em into a
.I <backup>.globals.sql
sidecar via
.BR "pg_dumpall \-\-globals\-only \-\-no\-role\-passwords" .
A single
.B pg_dump
does not include these, and restores run
.B \-\-no\-owner \-\-no\-privileges,
so without this a restored clone has none of the source's users or
permissions. Capture is opt\-in and off by default; these flags override the
per\-host
.B backup_globals
and global
.B defaults.backup_globals
config keys for this run. The sidecar omits password hashes
.RB ( \-\-no\-role\-passwords );
restored roles have no password. Apply it at restore time with
.B dbx restore \-\-with\-globals.
Ignored for MySQL / MariaDB.
.SH EXAMPLES
Back up the
.I myapp
database on host
.IR production :
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx backup production myapp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Back up every database declared for
.I staging :
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx backup staging
.fi
.RE
.PP
Verbose MySQL backup with live mysqldump progress:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx backup -v production b2c
.fi
.RE
.PP
Schema-only backup (no rows) for a schema diff or empty stage seed:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx backup --schema-only production myapp
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DBX_VERBOSE
Set to 1 to enable diagnostic logging from helpers
.RB ( mysql_detect_server_version ,
post-restore hook tracers, etc.).
.TP
.B DBX_MYSQL_IMAGE
Override the
.B mysql-dbx
container image (e.g.
.IR percona:8.0 ).
Pairs with
.B defaults.mysql_image
in
.IR config.json .
.TP
.B DBX_POSTGRES_IMAGE
Override the
.B postgres-dbx
container image.
.TP
.B DBX_BUILD_MISSING_IMAGES
Set to
.I false
to disable build-on-demand custom images for third-party extensions
(overrides
.BR defaults.build_missing_images ).
A restore that needs an unbuilt image then fails with a
.B dbx build-image
hint instead of building inline. See
.BR dbx-build-image (1).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.data/dbx/<host>/<database>/<database>_<timestamp>.sql.zst
The backup itself. Encrypted backups have an additional
.B .age
or
.B .gpg
suffix.
.TP
.I ~/.data/dbx/<host>/<database>/<file>.meta.json
Sidecar with file size, SHA-256 checksum, source flavor / version,
backup mode
.RB ( full / schema / data ),
.B dbx
version, a
.B globals
boolean, and other metadata.
.TP
.I ~/.data/dbx/<host>/<database>/<file>.globals.sql
(PostgreSQL,
.B \-\-globals
only) Cluster roles / grants / tablespaces captured by
.BR "pg_dumpall \-\-globals\-only" .
Created
.BR "chmod 600" ;
applied at restore with
.BR "dbx restore \-\-with\-globals" .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Backup completed successfully.
.TP
non-zero
.B pg_dump / mysqldump
failed, the container couldn't be matched, encryption failed, or the
post-backup upload (with
.BR \-\-upload )
failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbx-restore (1),
.BR dbx-list (1),
.BR dbx-clean (1),
.BR dbx-schedule (1),
.BR dbx-storage (1).
