.TH DBX-SCRUB 1 "2026-06-16" "dbx 0.31.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx-scrub \- manage PII scrub manifests and the restore-time gate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx scrub init
.RB [ \-\-include\-empty ]
.RB [ \-\-output
.IR file ]
.I host/database
.PP
.B dbx scrub check
.RB [ \-\-quiet ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.I host/database
.PP
.B dbx scrub validate
.I host
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage PII scrub manifests that describe how to sanitize sensitive
columns at restore time. The
.B restore
command consults the manifest before importing into a sidecar
container, refusing the restore if PII columns lack a declared
strategy.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.BR "init " [ "options" ] " " host/database
Sniff the live schema and emit a starter manifest covering tables and
columns that look PII-shaped (email, name, address, hashed-secret,
etc.). With
.B \-\-include\-empty,
also emits entries for columns that are currently empty (defensive:
will be populated later).
.B \-\-output
writes to a file instead of stdout.
.TP
.BR "check " [ "options" ] " " host/database
Run the manifest's checks against the live schema and report drift:
new tables, new columns, missing tables, columns that gained PII-shape
since the manifest was last regenerated.
.B \-\-quiet
suppresses passing checks.
.B \-\-json
emits a machine-readable report.
.TP
.BI "validate " host
Verify the manifest's syntactic shape (valid YAML, references real
strategies, no duplicate entries).
.SH STRATEGIES
The manifest references per-column strategies declared under
.IR .scrub.strategies
in
.IR config.json :
.IR fake_email ,
.IR redact ,
.IR jsonb_scrub_paths ,
and others. See the online docs for the full catalog.
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate a starter manifest from the live schema:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx scrub init production/myapp --output scrub/myapp.yaml
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check the manifest for drift:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx scrub check production/myapp
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dbx/scrub/<host>/<database>.yaml
Conventional manifest location. Path is taken from
.IR .scrub.manifests
in
.IR config.json
when set.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbx-restore (1),
.BR dbx-config (1).
