.TH DBX-CLEAN 1 "2026-06-02" "dbx 0.26.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx-clean \- prune old backups by count or age
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx clean
.RB [ \-\-keep
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-\-older\-than
.IR D ]
.RB [ \-\-dry\-run ]
.RI [ host ]
.RI [ database ]
.PP
.B dbx prune
.RI ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Delete old backups according to a retention policy. Two modes:
.IP \(bu 2
.B Count mode
.RB ( \-\-keep " " N ):
keep the newest
.I N
backups per host+database, delete the rest.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Age mode
.RB ( \-\-older\-than " " D ):
delete every backup older than
.I D
days. If
.B \-\-keep
is also passed explicitly, the count acts as a floor (preserve newest
.I N
even when older than
.IR D ).
.PP
With no scope arguments, applies the policy across every host+database
under
.IR $DATA_DIR .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-keep " N"
Keep the newest
.I N
backups per host+database. Default 10. When age mode is active without
an explicit
.BR \-\-keep ,
the default is treated as advisory (ignored).
.TP
.BI \-\-older\-than " D"
Delete backups older than
.I D
days. Activates age mode.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print what would be deleted, but don't actually delete.
.SH EXAMPLES
Keep newest 5 per database across all hosts:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx clean --keep 5
.fi
.RE
.PP
Delete anything older than 30 days, but always keep the newest 3:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx clean --older-than 30 --keep 3
.fi
.RE
.PP
See what would be deleted without committing:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx clean --older-than 90 --dry-run
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.data/dbx/<host>/<database>/
Walked recursively. Both the backup file and its
.I .meta.json
sidecar are removed together.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbx-list (1),
.BR dbx-backup (1).
