.TH DBX-WIZARD 1 "2026-06-02" "dbx 0.25.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx-wizard \- browser-based config builder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx wizard
.RB [ \-\-remote ]
.RB [ \-\-port
.IR N ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Spawn a local HTTP server that hosts a browser UI for building
.IR config.json
without hand-editing JSON. The same UI also surfaces:
.IP \(bu 2
.B Backups
view \(em browse files under
.IR $DATA_DIR ,
delete with confirmation, kick off a restore.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Restore
view \(em pick a backup and target with live progress + elapsed
counter.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Schedules
view \(em manage scheduled backups declaratively (writes to the
.IR .schedules
block in
.IR config.json ).
.PP
Local mode (default): the server binds to 127.0.0.1 on a free port and
opens your default browser. Remote mode
.RB ( \-\-remote ):
the server still binds 127.0.0.1 but prints an
.B ssh -L
tunnel command so you can forward the port from a laptop.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-remote
Server-only mode. Skips the local browser launch and prints the URL
+ a suggested
.B ssh -L
tunnel command.
.TP
.BI \-\-port " N"
Pin the bind port. Default: OS picks a free port. Useful with
.B \-\-remote
so the
.B ssh -L
command is stable across runs.
.SH EXAMPLES
Local:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx wizard
.fi
.RE
.PP
Remote, pinned port 8765:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx wizard --remote --port 8765
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dbx/config.json
Reads and writes the config; the wizard merges into the existing file
(atomically via a
.I .wizard-tmp
swap) so unrelated top-level keys like
.IR .scrub
and
.IR .vault
are preserved.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbx-config (1),
.BR dbx-restore (1),
.BR ssh (1).
