.TH DBX-STORAGE 1 "2026-06-02" "dbx 0.30.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx-storage \- upload, download, and sync backups to S3 / MinIO
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx storage upload
.I local-file
.RI [ remote-path ]
.PP
.B dbx storage download
.I remote-path
.RI [ local-file ]
.PP
.B dbx storage sync upload
.I host
.RI [ database ]
.PP
.B dbx storage sync download
.I host
.RI [ database ]
.PP
.B dbx storage list
.RI [ prefix ]
.PP
.B dbx storage delete
.I remote-path
.PP
.B dbx storage info
.PP
.B dbx storage add
.PP
.B dbx s3
.IR ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Upload, download, and sync backups against a configured S3-compatible
remote (real S3, MinIO, R2, etc.). Uses
.B mc
.RB ( "minio client" )
when available, otherwise the
.B aws
CLI; configure which under
.IR .storage
in
.IR config.json .
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B add
Interactively configure remote storage (bucket, endpoint URL, region,
key ID, secret access key). Stored under
.IR .storage
in
.IR config.json
with the secret in the vault.
.TP
.B info
Show the configured storage settings and a connectivity probe.
.TP
.B upload " " local " [" remote-path "]"
Upload
.I local
to the configured bucket. If
.I remote-path
is omitted, mirrors the file's path under
.IR $DATA_DIR .
.TP
.B download " " remote " [" local "]"
Download
.I remote
to
.I local
(or mirror back into
.IR $DATA_DIR
when
.I local
is omitted).
.TP
.B sync " " upload | download " " host " [" database "]"
Sync every backup for
.IR host / database
in the chosen direction.
.TP
.B list " [" prefix "]"
List remote objects under
.IR prefix
(default: all).
.TP
.B "delete " remote
Delete a single remote object.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.nf
dbx storage add
dbx storage info
dbx storage sync upload production myapp
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dbx/config.json
Storage settings live under
.IR .storage .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbx-backup (1),
.BR dbx-restore (1),
.BR mc (1),
.BR aws (1).
