.TH DBX-RESTORE 1 "2026-06-02" "dbx 0.25.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx-restore \- restore a backup into a container or alternate target
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx restore
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-name
.IR target-db ]
.RB [ \-\-into
.IR container ]
.RB [ \-\-from\-remote
.IR remote-path ]
.RB [ \-\-transform[=
.IR script ]]
.RB [ \-\-transform\-inherit\-env ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-post\-restore ]
.RB [ \-\-hooks\-only ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-scrub ]
.RB [ \-\-recreate\-container ]
.RB [ \-\-keep\-download ]
.IR source
.SH DESCRIPTION
Restore a backup into a local Docker container, an alternate container,
or a remote dev host (via
.BR DEV_SERVICES_MODE=remote ).
.PP
.I source
can be:
.IP \(bu 2
.IR <host>/<database>/latest
\(em resolve to the newest backup for that host+db
.IP \(bu 2
.IR <host>/<database>/<file>
\(em an explicit backup file under
.B $DATA_DIR
.IP \(bu 2
An absolute path to any
.IR .sql.zst[.age|.gpg]
file
.IP \(bu 2
.IR s3://<host>/<database>/latest
\(em shorthand for
.B \-\-from\-remote
.IP \(bu 2
Omitted (with
.BR fzf
installed) to pick interactively
.PP
By default the restore lands in the managed
.B postgres-dbx
or
.B mysql-dbx
container as a new database named
.IR <base>_v<N>_<YYYYMMDD> .
Override with
.B \-\-name
or redirect to a different container with
.BR \-\-into .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Surface per-statement output from the engine. For MySQL, tees live
import errors. Also exports
.B DBX_VERBOSE=1
for downstream helpers.
.TP
.BI \-\-name " target-db"
Use a specific target database name instead of the auto-versioned
default.
.TP
.BI \-\-into " container"
Restore into the named Docker container instead of
.B postgres-dbx
(MySQL containers also supported for the
.B mysql
flavor). Refused when the SOURCE host is marked
.BR safety=prod
in
.IR config.json
\(em opt out by setting safety=local.
.TP
.BI \-\-from\-remote " remote-path"
Fetch from configured S3 / MinIO storage and restore. Path is
.IR <host>/<database>/latest
or a specific
.IR <host>/<database>/<file>
shape.
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-download
With
.BR \-\-from\-remote ,
keep the downloaded file under
.IR $DATA_DIR/.remote/
on success (default: delete).
.TP
.BI \-\-transform " script"
After decompression but before the engine import, pipe the SQL stream
through
.I script.
The script receives SQL on stdin and writes transformed SQL to stdout.
Useful for sanitization and table rewrites. The transform subprocess
runs under
.B env \-i
with a small allowlist by default.
.TP
.B \-\-transform\-inherit\-env
Opt in to passing
.B dbx's
full environment (PGPASSWORD, vault tokens, DBX_* vars) to the
.B \-\-transform
subprocess.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-post\-restore
Skip the per-database post-restore SQL hooks declared in
.IR config.json .
.TP
.B \-\-hooks\-only
Run ONLY the post-restore hooks against an existing target DB; do not
do an engine restore. Requires
.B \-\-name
to identify the existing DB.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-scrub
Break-glass: bypass the PII scrub gate. Loud warning emitted; intended
for debugging only.
.TP
.B \-\-recreate\-container
Destroy and recreate the target Docker container before restoring.
Required when the existing container has unrelated user data in it
(see also
.BR dbx-restore (1)
"Refusing recreate" error message).
.SH EXAMPLES
Restore the latest
.I myapp
backup from
.I production
into the local managed container:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx restore production/myapp/latest
.fi
.RE
.PP
Restore into a sidecar container with a sanitization transform:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx restore prod/users/latest \\
  --into devcopy \\
  --transform /usr/local/bin/sanitize-pii.sh \\
  --name users_safe
.fi
.RE
.PP
Restore from S3:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx restore s3://prod/users/latest
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DBX_VERBOSE
Set to 1 (or pass
.BR \-v )
to surface engine progress and helper diagnostics.
.TP
.B DBX_STRICT_IMPORT
For MySQL restores, opt out of the default
.B \-\-force
mode so the first per-statement error aborts the import. Use only
when a partial restore is worse than no restore.
.TP
.B DEV_SERVICES_MODE
Set to
.I remote
to restore against a remote dev host (DEV_PG_HOST / DEV_MYSQL_HOST)
instead of the managed local containers.
.TP
.B DBX_RECREATE_CONTAINER
Equivalent to passing
.BR \-\-recreate\-container .
.SH SAFETY
The
.BR safety
field on each host in
.I config.json
gates dangerous flag combinations.
.B safety=prod
hosts refuse
.BR \-\-into
restores (the dangerous "restore prod data into a sidecar that might
shadow a live DB" path).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.data/dbx/<host>/<database>/
Where
.B dbx
looks for
.IR latest
and explicit filenames.
.TP
.I ~/.config/dbx/config.json
Per-database
.IR post_restore_hooks
and
.IR scrub
manifests; per-host
.IR safety
flag.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Restore complete; data landed where the final
.B [OK] Restore complete
line says.
.TP
non-zero
Restore failed at one of: source resolution, decompression /
decryption, container provisioning, the engine import, the scrub gate,
or post-restore hooks.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbx-backup (1),
.BR dbx-verify (1),
.BR dbx-scrub (1),
.BR dbx-storage (1).
