.TH DBX-SCHEDULE 1 "2026-06-02" "dbx 0.25.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx-schedule \- manage scheduled backups (launchd / systemd)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx schedule add
.I host
.I database
.RI [ when ]
.PP
.B dbx schedule remove
.I host
.I database
.PP
.B dbx schedule list
.PP
.B dbx schedule run
.I host
.I database
.PP
.B dbx schedule sync
.RB [ \-\-dry\-run ]
.RB [ \-\-force ]
.PP
.B dbx cron
.IR ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Install, list, and remove scheduled backups. On macOS uses
.B launchd
.IR LaunchAgent
plists under
.IR ~/Library/LaunchAgents/ ;
on Linux uses
.B systemd
.IR user
.IR .timer / .service
pairs under
.IR ~/.config/systemd/user/ .
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.BR "add " host " " database " " [ when ]
Install a scheduled unit. The
.I when
shorthand accepts:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.IR daily ,
.IR hourly ,
.IR weekly
.IP \(bu 2
.IR daily@HH
(daily at hour HH, 24h)
.IP \(bu 2
.IR weekly@DOW:HH
(weekday DOW 1\-7, hour HH)
.RE
.TP
.B "remove " host " " database
Uninstall and disable the scheduled unit.
.TP
.B list
Show all installed scheduled units across both
.B launchd
and
.B systemd
backends, with their next run time.
.TP
.B "run " host " " database
Run the scheduled backup once, now (used by the scheduler itself but
also handy for ad-hoc verification).
.TP
.B sync
Reconcile installed units with the declarative
.IR .schedules
block in
.IR config.json .
.B --dry-run
prints what would change without committing.
.B --force
also removes orphan units not declared in config.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.nf
dbx schedule add production myapp daily@5
dbx schedule list
dbx schedule remove production myapp
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.dbx.<host>-<db>.plist
launchd plist (macOS).
.TP
.I ~/.config/systemd/user/dbx-<host>-<db>.{timer,service}
systemd unit (Linux).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbx-backup (1),
.BR dbx-config (1),
.BR launchd.plist (5),
.BR systemd.timer (5).
