.TH DBX 1 "2026-05-26" "dbx 0.19.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dbx \- database backup and restore utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ args ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dbx
is a command-line utility for backing up and restoring PostgreSQL,
MySQL, and MariaDB databases. Backups run against remote hosts over
SSH tunnels using Docker-hosted
.B pg_dump
and
.B mysqldump
clients \(em no local DB install needed. Backups are zstd-compressed,
optionally encrypted with age or GPG, and can be uploaded to S3 or
MinIO.
.PP
Configuration lives in
.IR ~/.config/dbx/config.json ;
backups land under
.IR ~/.data/dbx/<host>/<database>/ .
Credentials are stored in the system keychain (macOS) or libsecret
(Linux).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Backup and restore
.TP
.B backup
Back up one or more databases. See
.BR dbx-backup (1).
.TP
.B restore
Restore a backup into a managed Docker container, an alternate
container, or a remote host. See
.BR dbx-restore (1).
.TP
.B verify
Verify a backup's SHA-256 checksum and inspect its
.IR .meta.json
sidecar. See
.BR dbx-verify (1).
.TP
.B list
Show available backups for a host or database. See
.BR dbx-list (1).
.TP
.B clean
Prune old backups by count or age. See
.BR dbx-clean (1).
.SS Inspection
.TP
.B query
Open an interactive shell against a DB. See
.BR dbx-query (1).
.TP
.B analyze
Pick tables to exclude from backups using
.BR fzf .
See
.BR dbx-analyze (1).
.TP
.B test
Test connectivity to a host. See
.BR dbx-test (1).
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B host add
Interactively add a host to config.json. See
.BR dbx-host (1).
.TP
.B config
Manage
.IR config.json .
See
.BR dbx-config (1).
.TP
.B vault
Manage stored credentials. See
.BR dbx-vault (1).
.TP
.B wizard
Browser-based config builder. See
.BR dbx-wizard (1).
.SS Scheduling
.TP
.B schedule
Manage scheduled backups via launchd (macOS) or systemd (Linux). See
.BR dbx-schedule (1).
.SS Cloud storage
.TP
.B storage
Upload, download, and sync backups against S3 / MinIO. See
.BR dbx-storage (1).
.SS PII
.TP
.B scrub
Manage PII scrub manifests and the restore-time gate. See
.BR dbx-scrub (1).
.SS Shell integration
.TP
.B completion
Print shell completion script (bash | zsh | fish). See
.BR dbx-completion (1).
.SS Self-maintenance
.TP
.B update
Check for and install a newer release from GitHub.
.TP
.B version
Print the installed version.
.TP
.B help
Show the built-in command list.
.SH EXAMPLES
First-time setup:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx config init && dbx host add
.fi
.RE
.PP
Back up the
.I myapp
database on host
.IR production :
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx backup production myapp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Restore the latest backup of
.I myapp
into the managed local
.B postgres-dbx
container:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dbx restore production/myapp/latest
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DBX_VERBOSE
When set to 1, surfaces extra logging from helpers (mysqldump live
stderr, version-detection diagnostics, etc.).
.TP
.B DBX_DATA_DIR
Override the default backup-data directory
.RB ( ~/.data/dbx ).
.TP
.B DBX_CONFIG_DIR
Override the default config directory
.RB ( ~/.config/dbx ).
.TP
.B DBX_AUDIT_DIR
Override the default audit-log directory
.RB ( ~/.local/share/dbx ).
.TP
.B DEV_SERVICES_MODE
When set to
.IR remote ,
restore targets a remote dev host via
.BR DEV_PG_HOST / DEV_MYSQL_HOST
instead of the local managed containers.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dbx/config.json
Host, database, encryption, and notification configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.data/dbx/<host>/<database>/
Backup files. Each backup pairs with a
.I .meta.json
sidecar (size, checksum, source flavor / version,
.B dbx
version).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/dbx/audit.log
Audit log of completed backups and restores (used for ETA baselines).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbx-backup (1),
.BR dbx-restore (1),
.BR dbx-verify (1),
.BR dbx-list (1),
.BR dbx-clean (1),
.BR dbx-query (1),
.BR dbx-test (1),
.BR dbx-analyze (1),
.BR dbx-host (1),
.BR dbx-config (1),
.BR dbx-vault (1),
.BR dbx-wizard (1),
.BR dbx-schedule (1),
.BR dbx-storage (1),
.BR dbx-scrub (1),
.BR dbx-completion (1).
.PP
Online docs:
.I https://steig.github.io/dbx/
